the scientific name of cornmint is mentha arvensis. mentha arvensis (field mint, wild mint or corn mint) is a species of mint with a circumboreal distribution. it is native to the temperate regions of europe and western and central asia, east to the himalaya and eastern siberia, and north america. it is a herbaceous perennial plant growing to 10äóñ60 cm (rarely to 100 cm) tall. the leaves are in opposite pairs, simple, 2äóñ6.5 cm long and 1äóñ2 cm broad, hairy, and with a coarsely serrated margin. the flowers are pale purple (occasionally white or pink), in clusters on the stem, each flower 3äóñ4 mm long. uses & benefits of podina: 50x40pxthis article does not cite any references or sources. please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. unsourced material may be challenged and removed. podina is used as a carminative and an expectorant. the plant is highly effective in treating headaches, rhinitis, cough sore throat, colic, prurigo and vomiting. it serves as a good blood cleanser, since it is antiseptic and anti-bacterial. podina plays a significant role in alleviating swollen gums, mouth ulcers and toothaches. crushed and bruised pudina leaves are used in treating insect bites. the decoction and infusion of its leaves and stems helps in fever, stomachaches, dysmenorrheal and diuresis. fresh leaves of podina are crushed and sniffed for dizziness. crushed leaves are also applied on the forehead and temple, to cure headaches. for toothaches, boil 6 tablespoons of pudina leaves in 2 glasses of water, for 15 minutes. strain and cool the water. divide it into two parts and take each part after 3 to 4 hours. boil 6 tablespoons of chopped leaves in 2 glasses of water, for 15 minutes. cool and strain. divide the decoction into 3 parts and consume three times a day. this will help in treating coughs. for treating arthritis, take some fresh leaves and heat on low flame. pound them and apply on the painful joints or muscles, when still warm. soak 2 tablespoons of chopped leaves in a glass of hot water for 30 minutes and strain. use the infusion as a mouthwash. the menthol extracted from the plant is used in preparing balms. it is used as a flavoring agent in many culinary preparations there are six subspecies: mentha arvensis subsp. arvensis. mentha arvensis subsp. agrestis briq. mentha arvensis subsp. austriaca (jacq. ) briq. mentha arvensis subsp. lapponica (wahlenb. ) neuman mentha arvensis subsp. palustris (moench) neumann mentha arvensis subsp. parietariifolia (becker) briq. the related species mentha canadensis is also included in m. arvensis by some authors as two varieties, m. arvensis var. glabrata fernald (in reference to north american plants) and m. arvensis var. piperascens malinv. ex l. h. bailey (in reference to eastern asian plants).