the scientific name of linden is tilia. <i>tilia</i> is a genus of about 30 species of trees native throughout most of the temperate northern hemisphere. commonly called lime trees in the british isles, they are not related to the lime fruit. other names include linden, and basswood for the north american species. the genus occurs in europe and eastern north america, but the greatest species diversity is found in asia. under the cronquist classification system, this genus was placed in the family tiliaceae, but genetic research summarised by the angiosperm phylogeny group has resulted in the incorporation of this genus, and of most of the previous family, into the malvaceae.<i>tilia</i> species are mostly large, deciduous trees, reaching typically 20 to 40 metres (65 to 130 ft) tall, with oblique-cordate leaves 6 to 20 centimetres (2 1䁋4 to 7 3䁋4 in) across. as with elms, the exact number of species is uncertain, as many if not most of the species will hybridise readily, both in the wild and in cultivation. limes are hermaphroditic, having perfect flowers with both male and female parts, pollinated by insects.the dried flowers are mildly sweet and sticky, and the fruit is somewhat sweet and mucilaginous. limeflower tea has a pleasing taste, due to the aromatic volatile oil found in the flowers. the flowers, leaves, wood, and charcoal (obtained from the wood) are used for medicinal purposes. active ingredients in the <i>tilia</i> flowers include flavonoids (which act as antioxidants) and volatile oils. the plant also contains tannins that can act as an astringent.linden flowers are used in herbalism for colds, cough, fever, infections, inflammation, high blood pressure, headache (particularly migraine), and as a diuretic (increases urine production), antispasmodic (reduces smooth muscle spasm along the digestive tract), and sedative. in the traditional austrian medicine <i>tilia</i> sp. flowers have been used internally as tea for treatment of disorders of the respiratory tract, fever and flu. new evidence shows that the flowers may be hepatoprotective. the wood is used for liver and gallbladder disorders and cellulitis (inflammation of the skin and surrounding soft tissue). that wood burned to charcoal is ingested to treat intestinal disorders and used topically to treat edema or infection such as cellulitis or ulcers of the lower leg.usually, the double-flowered species are used to make perfumes. the leaf buds and young leaves are also edible raw. tilia species are used as food plants by the larvae of some lepidoptera; see list of lepidoptera that feed on <i>tilia</i>. (wikipedia)